[Music]
all right Tim great to see you thanks
for spending the time thank you for
coming so you had the WWDC keynote today
yeah which was really fun to watch it
was a whole two hours I want to zoom all
the way out because obviously a lot of
talk about AI in general yeah and I I'm
kind of just left wondering how Apple
defines AI in general cuz I know if you
ask a regular person you might hear
about generative AI chat Bots things
like that yeah and these are relatively
new additions to Apple's AI portfolio
how do you look at AI as Apple well
we've
been executing with AI for a long time
right uh it's at the you're wearing a
watch it's at the root of the watch I
mean you think about things like crash
detection fall
detection things like apib and all of
this kind of stuff is machine learning
at the end of the day and so but what
has captured people's imagination is
generative Ai and we see it as the
opportunity for a whole new curve of
technology and and providing and doing
more things for people providing an
assistant for people uh things that
really improve people's lives so that's
how we see it um there's
obviously uh it's not without downside
and so we have approach it very
thoughtfully sure and uh and as as you
heard we we have always been focused on
privacy and so privacy is a very key
tenant of our thrust into AI right it's
been interesting to watch Apple's Arc
with AI because I I made a whole piece
not more than about a year ago about how
Apple seems to never say AI even though
they have all these these neural engines
and machine learning and things like
that yeah and and so now we have almost
this pivot where now we're just saying
it we're actually branding it it's Apple
intelligence now I'm curious why that
change now well the in the in the
beginning and throughout almost
everything that we always do we always
talk about the benefit to the user and
so the benefit to the user is Crash
detection and fall detection not the
technology behind the feature sure and
so we still we we still view it like
that but it became
clear uh that people wanted to know our
views on on generative AI in particular
uh and and so we decided to embrace it
and uh called it Apple intelligence okay
uh I have a quote from I the DU Leia
interview that you did was great um it
was fun she's fantastic I was I loved it
it was great I you had a quote that said
uh about AI if it can be used for
nefarious things we won't go down that
road yeah and at the time I assumed that
that meant generative AI was off the
table because of all the things that
we'd seen about what it was potentially
capable of or things that it might do um
has that changed is that something that
was off the table and you figure now
you've got the right tools or the right
restrictions to make sure that that all
goes Super well how do you think about
that generative AI was never off the
table it was always about pursuing it in
a thoughtful kind of way
and uh and so that that's what we've
done and we've implemented it in ways
that
are uh less likely to create issues how
so uh how so well things that you if you
think about the kinds of things that we
talked about we talked about uh personal
context and we talked about privacy and
so we're not waiting for
a comprehensive privacy legislation
regulation to come into effect we we
already view privacy as a fundamental
human right and so that's the way we
that's the lens that we see it at uh and
given that we're doing those things
personal context and privacy we wanted
to integrate it at a deep level so
you're not having to think oh well now I
want to do something that uses
intelligence we put it in the apps that
you're already using and integrated it
deeply right yeah I think also now
there's a lot of talk about it now there
is generative AI yeah um a lot of people
have I mean Apple's notorious for never
sending anything to the cloud
everything's on device because that is
the most secure way to do it and was
applauded for it interestingly this is a
little bit different now with a lot of
these larger models more complex
requests you actually do have to go off
device so you've developed want to get
the name right private Cloud compute
explain this to us cuz I think the The
General online is well they have to be
sending data to open AI for example to
get a request back from chat GPT well
there's private CL compute and then
there's the uh arrangement with open AI
these two things are different okay and
so if you look at private Cloud compute
we're utilizing the same silicon or not
the same silicon but the same basic
architecture as the Silicon that's in
the well that's in the iPhone 15 yeah
and uh and and we're using the same
software and so we we believe that we've
done it in such a way that it's as safe
and secure and private in the private
Cloud compute as the device and so we
really we really worked on this a a a
lot and put a lot of wood behind that
Arrow to to assure
that if you're if you're working on
something that requires wh knowledge so
you're out of the the domain of personal
context and so forth uh then you you may
want to go and use one of the large
language models that are on the market
and we we selected what we feel is the
best one with open Ai and chat
GPT uh but you'll make a conscious
decision to do that every time every
time so you you can guarantee that there
will never be any data sent to open AI
without your explicit user right that's
right you decide right I I also feel
like there was this blip on the radar of
Standalone AI devices which I found
really interesting they didn't land too
well I think smartphones are pretty
great but there was an interesting
conversation around that about using
your phone less maybe having AI help you
out in ways that let you spend less time
on the screen and this is something you
echoed also in the doal leap interview
like if you're looking at your phone
more than you're looking at someone
else's size something's off there yeah
do you think there's a potential future
where we're using our phones less
because of how well the intelligence
works I think it's a possibility and a
significant possibility I mean for us
we've never been motivated for people to
spend their lives on their
devices uh our our model is not one that
needs engagement to succeed our model is
one that where we want to empower you to
to be able to do things you couldn't do
otherwise we want to give you a tool so
you can do incredible things uh that you
couldn't do without the tool that that's
what motivates us and and so we you know
we come out with things like screen time
Etc so it's a bit in your face as to how
much you're using your
device uh we come out with we count your
notifications and so forth so that you
can go in and say do I really want this
many notifications and and we have
Focus uh kinds of states where you can
silence the the phone Etc and so I I do
believe that as things get smarter and
smarter with apple
intelligence that you can even take
things that we're taking more time will
take less time now right and uh and so I
do think that opportunity exists
interesting yeah it's a curious future
it is it it is and I and I think a
really I'm really optimistic about it
yeah I also I feel like there was tons
of chatter when you were first CEO of
Apple about this new shift obviously
coming from Steve Jobs and you've been
CEO for for it feels like a long time
now and we're entering this new age of
AI and I'm curious now now there's new
chatter about who whose next CEO is
going to be what do you feel like your
your legacy as CEO at Apple should be
yeah marz I don't think about it okay
and so to to me a legacy is something
that is uh defined by other people
looking at you not something that you
define yourself very fair and and so I
and I typically am always focused on the
forward not the rearview Mir
and that's that is a characteristic of
Apple in general is we're very focused
on the forward you you won't find a
museum here and yet we would have lots
of things that you might like to see and
and reminisce about but we just don't
it's just not a part of our culture yeah
and and so I feel the same way
personally uh at some point there will
be another CEO and uh and and my whole
focus in life will on will be on making
them successful yeah I like that answer
it's very LeBron answer I feel like he
said that things yeah uh all right I
want to end with a little game uh I
don't know if you've seen these where a
blind ranking have you seen what these
are a blind ranking blind ranking so
we're going to do a top five Apple
products of all time but I'm going to
give you them one at a time and you
don't know what the rest of them are so
you have to rank the first one without
knowing what 2 3 four and five are oh
and this is your ranking this will be
your unofficial ranking just based on
your gut reaction of how you feel about
the know this is a tough one because it
a tough one it's like asking you your
favorite kids or nephews or nieces and
we'll see how it goes yeah okay number
one MacBook Air it had that iconic
moment of like taking it out the
envelope on stage it's the most popular
laptop in the world I think it's the
most popular in the world and that
moment of taking it out of the
folder uh established a characteristic
about that device that lives today the
the first one it wasn't about how many
people would buy it yeah uh it was about
establishing the foundation was that the
first air that was that was uh of any
line yeah you might have been I believe
so yes okay I believe so and so I I'm
going to fail miserably at giving you a
ranking but it was a huge moment yeah a
huge moment for the company the
iPad oh wow you know uh tablets had been
in the market for a long time our
objective is never to be first our
objective is to be best I remember all
the rumors leading up to it and there
were many rumors leading up to it and
and uh people thought
uh many things that weren't too nice
about it in the in the beginning
including the name uh and and yet I
couldn't live without my iPad today yeah
and uh and and so another huge moment
for the for the company my number three
is the Magic
Mouse The Magic
Mouse
uh it was also an incredible
moment um people don't think of that as
much as they would the MacBook Air and
the iPad and whatever else you're going
to name
probably uh but the getting
the
ergonomics well done and uh was key with
Magic Mouse yeah okay four out of five
the iPhone oh my God it changed the
world it definitely changed the world it
changed the world and and
uh the the
Simplicity of defining the three things
yeah that were that were the on the
phone was brilliant to get people to
think about it like that and of course
opening up this isn't talked about as
much but initially you'll remember that
there was not an app store right the App
Store came a year later and that changed
everything in the developer
Community uh because now now I meet with
uh students every WWDC and they give me
such great inspiration there were no
students in the developer community at
that particular point in time now
they're the developer population is very
diverse from an age point of view and
everything else and uh it it it just
fundamentally it it became an economic
miracle for people and uh and got well
outside of just doing it for a hobby it
it was or you look at all the businesses
that that came out of it yeah and now we
have WWDC that's right last but not
least Vision
Pro oh I I
uh I love Vision Pro I was just using it
last night to look at the a screening
yeah what do you use Vision Pro for I
asked everybody who has one what they
use it for I use it
for uh the entertainment uh value I use
it when I want to do
multitasking because I find the multiple
windows really effective in in doing
this um of course I'm reviewing lots of
apps on it right now and some of those
are Enterprise apps some some people's
proprietary apps that they want to share
with us and
and I'm seeing an
extraordinary uh number and variety of
things coming out of the Enterprise area
far earlier than we would have predicted
interesting because businesses generally
move slow to adopt yeah and and what
we're seeing is that half of the Fortune
100 is now buying Vision Pro for some
project or the other or exploring it and
uh and so I I I'm looking at several of
those and uh yeah I I I find that it's
still an emotional experience to look at
your photos and with vision os2 being
able to take your old photos yeah and
make them 3D I think is a big big thing
yeah and you know I lost both of my
parents and before Vision Pro came out
and being able to go
back and look at those photos
differently is yeah is something that
you know it's it's an experience you
can't replicate for sure well we didn't
get a blind ranking but we got a pretty
good retrospective of some of these
products thanks again for the time
looking forward to the next uh next
feature drops in the next dub du but uh
this was fun thank you yeah it was great
fun thank you for coming thanks for
having me
oh